# Chapter 1

Links: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jkp8tOPEWsBD0WfhfBEFFCgAb516JPaVueK6Dj-osg4/edit

Q.Chapter-1

1. **Why does more node increase energy of orbitals?**

A. 1. [https://chemistry.stackexchange.com/questions/14578/when-is-it-true-that-more-nodes-equals-higher-energy](https://chemistry.stackexchange.com/questions/14578/when-is-it-true-that-more-nodes-equals-higher-energy)

1. **On page -19 klein says the larger front lobe enables hybridized atomic orbitals to be more efficent than p orbitals to form bonds? why are hybridized orbital more efficent than p orbitals?**

A.2.:Greater electron density allows electrons to be easily shared between orbitals.

1. **Illustrations of humo and lumo**

A.3. HOMO LUMO is just a convention that tells you the highest occupied MO and the lowest unoccupied MO. You draw your MOs with increasing energy, drop the electrons on the MOs and see what your HOMO and LUMO is.

1. **Does bonding require you to hybridize? Can you have ionic bond with hybridization?**

A.4. If your energy required to hybridise can be countered by the energy released after bond formation, then hybridisation can occur. It depends on a lot of other conditions, like geometry (your orbitals become directionally large due to hybridisation, so i there's hindrance due to geometry, then it might not occur).

1. **Does vsepr hold for both ionic and non ionic substances?**

A.5. No. VSEPR is a model for covalent bonds. It has been found that VSEPR does not agree in case of ionic compounds. In covalent compounds, In covalent bonding, the molecular geometry around each atom is determined by valence shell electron pair repulsion, whereas in ionic, it is determined by the maximum packing rules.

1. **On page 30 bottom part, klein says there is experimental way to measure dipole moment, how?**

A.6.[https://www.chem.uzh.ch/dam/jcr:07de8ca0-618d-40f8-85ce-3403c8df22a3/Dipole_Moment_HS16.pdf](https://www.chem.uzh.ch/dam/jcr:07de8ca0-618d-40f8-85ce-3403c8df22a3/Dipole_Moment_HS16.pdf)

1. **How does electron contribute to moleculear dipole moment?**

A.7. If there's a lone pair (say), the direction of the electron cloud containing the pair has a net charge which lends a dipole moment along with the positive charge in the middle

C-1 (contin)

1. **Still dont understand fleeeting dipole interactions. What does it mean for transient charge inductions**

A. Compound structures are dynamiclly changing, due to this center of negative and positive charge may change

1. P**age 40, why dry clean some clothes and not others?**

A. need to recheck this

1. W**hy does bond connectivity not matter for dipole moment ( ping me for elaboration)?**

A. You can't add up the arrows directly, you need to consider the 3-d structure

1. **How is double bond treated in vseper**

A. same as single bond

1. **How is cyclopropane ring possible with each angle being 109.5 when the total angle in a triangle must sum to 180?**

A. this is exactly the reason for ring strain

1. Why does odd electron exception for octet rule?

A.