# AHK

Column: Oct 5, 2020 9:06 AM
Last edited by: Soutrik das

# Hotstrings

## Auto Replace Hotstring

For the most basic Hotstrings (  have to type something after it)

```jsx
::btw::by the way
```

In the above example, the abbreviation btw will be automatically replaced with "by the way" whenever you type it (however, by default you must type an ending character after typing btw, such as Space, ., or Enter).

You also dont need a return since there cant be multiple statements

## Custom Hotstring

```elm
::btw::
MsgBox You typed "btw".
return

:*:]d::  ;no need for ending characters
FormatTime, CurrentDateTime,, M/d/yyyy h:mm tt  
SendInput %CurrentDateTime%
return
```

Even though the two examples above are not auto-replace hotstrings, the abbreviation you type is erased by default. This is done via automatic backspacing, which can be disabled via the [b0 option.](https://www.autohotkey.com/docs/Hotstrings.htm#b0)

`:*:btw:: ...` type of [hotstrings dont appear in words](https://www.notion.so/AHK-7002d811f99f41efb969e7fa654de178#93b9a5027a3b4540b37e05f9ba48ecc2) , ie if i type **kbtw**  then it wont make the btw into by the way

---

## Ending Characters

Unless the asterisk option is in effect, you must type an ending character after a hotstring's abbreviation to trigger it.

Ending characters initially consist of the following: -()[]{}':;"/\,.`n `t (note that `n is Enter,`t is Tab, and there is a plain space between `n and`t)

## Changing the ending characters

This set of characters can be changed by editing the following example, which sets the new ending characters for all hotstrings, not just the ones beneath it:

```elm
#Hotstring EndChars -()[]{}:;'"/\,.?!`n `t
```

---

## Options

These are the ones you put inside the colons 

For example the `c` and `*` options are active in the next case 

```elm
:c*:btw::by the way
OR
:c *:btw::by the way
```

When specifying more than one option using the methods above, spaces optionally may be included between them.

`* (asterisk)`: An ending character (e.g. Space, ., or Enter) is not required to trigger the hotstring. For example:

```elm
:*:]d::dont do this
```

`? (question mark)`: The hotstring will be triggered even when it is inside another word; that is, when the character typed immediately before it is alphanumeric. For example, if :?:al::airline is a hotstring, typing "practical " would produce "practicairline ". *Use ?0 to turn this option back off.*

**`B0** (B followed by a zero)`: Automatic backspacing is not done to erase the abbreviation you type. Use a plain **B** to turn backspacing back on after it was previously turned off. A
script may also do its own backspacing via {bs 5}, which sends 5 Backspace keystrokes. Similarly, it may send ← keystrokes via {left 5}. For example, the following hotstring produces
"<em></em>" and moves the caret 5 places to the left (so
that it's between the tags):

```
:*b0:<em>::</em>{left 5}
```

---

## Cutting and Pasting in AHK

Let the text be selected 

---

## Variables

There are two methods (Legacy and expression)

### Legacy Method of assigning data

```elm
var=123
txt=This is a literal string
CopyOfVar=%Var% 
;With Legacy mode , a percent sign is 
required to get value of a variable
```

For legacy mode 

```python
a=5
b=a
The above is same in ahk as 
a=5
b=%a%
```

### Expression method of assigning data

```elm
var:=123
txt:="This is a literal string"
```

For Expression mode 

```python
--python--
a=5
b=a
#is same as 
a:=5
b:=a
```

## Erasing the contents of a variable

```python
var=
var:= ""
```

The empty pair of quotes above should be used only with the := operator because if it were used with the = operator, it would store two literal quote-characters inside the variable.

## Retrieving the contents of a variable

Like the two methods of storing values, there are also two methods for retrieving them: legacy and expression.

### Legacy method of retrieval

```python
CopyofVar=%Var%
```

### Expression method of retrieval

```python
CopyofVar:= Var
```

# Storing into a clipboard

```python
pageN := clipboard ;
```

# `Sending` variable

```python
var = abc

send %var% ; not Send %var%
```

`Send %var%` doesnt work `send %var%` works

# Sleeping

```python
Sleep, 200  ; 0.2 second
```

# Running a file when a hotstring/shortcut key is pressed

```html
Run name.py , full path
^i::
Run chooseanimage.pyw , D:\Coding_Projects\AHK Scripts\pythonscripts
return
```

# Image Search

---

Right now I am using pyautogui to do the search for me , but I do not know if ahk is faster , so I do want to try it later on 

The relevant document is [this](https://www.autohotkey.com/docs/commands/ImageSearch.htm)